Let's actually build something.
I gave Claude Code a fresh project and one instruction: build a task tracker, on MetaObjects.
By the end, you'll have this — a working API serving real data, plus a typed stack: database schema, validation, forms, hooks, and a grid.
All generated from one model.
Here's how, start to finish.
First, what we're building — a task tracker: projects, and tasks with a status and a due date.
All you need is Node and one package, the MetaObjects CLI.
Everything else, Claude Code does.
No models, no setup — just the ask.
Here's how the build actually goes.
Step one is always meta init.
It scaffolds your model directory and config — but it does something more important, too.
It drops six skills and an AGENTS file right into your repo.
Your agent now knows the MetaObjects workflow — author the model, generate, verify — before it writes a single line.
You're not teaching it a new tool.
Meta init already did that.
So Claude writes the model — one readable file.
A Project, a Task with a status and a due date, the relationship between them, and a grid.
And notice the validators sitting right on the fields — child metadata that travels with the model.
That's the entire source of truth.
Then, meta gen.
From those few lines: twelve files.
Your database schema, validation, a full CRUD API, forms, hooks, and a grid — none of it hand-written.
And it's real, idiomatic code — Drizzle and Zod here.
Not boilerplate you babysit; output you regenerate.
Hand-edit a file and a three-way merge keeps your changes.
Wire it to a database and boot it, and it's a working app — the generated routes serving real task data over HTTP.
The filters are generated and enforced from the model, too.
Filterable fields work; anything else is a 400.
No hand-written validation.
Now the part that matters.
To test the guarantee, an AI renamed a field in the generated code.
One meta verify caught it — exit one, the build fails.
Even with an agent writing the code, it can't silently drift.
So I asked Claude how much this actually saved.
Thirty-four lines of model became over eight hundred lines of consistent, typed stack — two tables, validation, ten endpoints, forms, and a grid.
I hand-wrote about thirty lines of glue.
And the one time an AI drifted, verify caught it.
The model is the asset; the code is regenerable.
That's getting started.
Install the CLI, run meta init, and your agent already knows how.
Everything's at metaobjects dot dev.
Thanks for watching.